AI: note Data Protection requirement for sensitive settings (#7990)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: ai-in-umbraco/1/extending/providers/provider-settings.md

{% endcode %}

{% hint style="info" %}

> Sensitive values are encrypted at rest using [ASP.NET Core Data Protection](https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/data-protection/configuration/overview). If the Data Protection key ring isn't persisted across restarts (for example, a Windows IIS app pool without a user profile, or a container without a persistent volume), decryption will fail after a restart or on a different machine. The value will appear as `ENC:...` in the UI and the log will show `The key {guid} was not found in the key ring`. Either configure Data Protection to persist keys to a stable store, or use [configuration references](#configuration-references) so the secret lives in `appsettings.json` instead of the database.

Reviewer: A suggestion to shorten the long sentences in this paragraph.

```suggestion
Sensitive values are encrypted at rest using [ASP.NET Core Data Protection](https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/data-protection/configuration/overview). If the Data Protection keyring isn't persisted across restarts, decryption will fail. This occurs when Windows IIS app pools lack profiles or containers with persistent volumes. The value will appear as `ENC:...` in the UI, and the log will show `The key {guid} was not found in the key ring`. Configure Data Protection to persist keys to a stable store. Alternatively, use configuration references to store secrets in appsettings.json instead of the database.
```

Author: Works for me 👍
